---
layout: post
title:  "Docker"
author: sal
categories: [ Docker, DevOps ]
image: assets/images/docker.png
beforetoc: " A simple introduction on the docker concept"
toc: true
---

<!-- wp:heading {"level":3} -->
<h3>what is Docker</h3>
<!-- /wp:heading -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>D</strong><strong>ocker&nbsp;</strong>is a&nbsp;tool designed to make it&nbsp;easier to create, deploy, and run applications by using containers. Containers allow a developer to package up an application with all of the parts it needs, such as libraries and other dependencies, and ship it all out as one package.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>By doing so, the developer can rest assured that the application will run on any other Linux machine regardless of any customized settings that machine might have that could differ from the machine used for writing and testing the code.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:heading {"level":3} -->
<h3>What is a container?</h3>
<!-- /wp:heading -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>A container is like a software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another. A Docker container image is a lightweight, standalone, executable package of software that includes everything needed to run an application: code, run time, system tools, system libraries and settings.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>In other way Docker is like a virtual machine,rather than creating a whole virtual operating system, Docker allows applications to use the same Linux kernel as the system that they're running on and only requires applications be shipped with things not already running on the host computer. This gives a significant performance boost and reduces the size of the application.<br></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:heading {"level":3} -->
<h3>Who is Docker for?</h3>
<!-- /wp:heading -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Docker is a DevOps tool which is designed&nbsp;&nbsp;for the benefit of both developers and system administrators (developers + operations)For developers, it means that they can focus on writing code without worrying about the&nbsp;system that it will ultimately be running on.For operations staff, Docker gives flexibility and potentially reduces the number of&nbsp;systems needed because of its small footprint and lower overhead.<br></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:heading {"level":3} -->
<h3>Get Started&nbsp;</h3>
<!-- /wp:heading -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Use the below video to understand the docker concept easily </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<p><iframe style="width:100%;" height="315" src="https://youtu.be/wi-MGFhrad0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Hope this post would be useful. Will try to explore more and will share it with you all ...</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
